Title: Movies!
Date: 2010-03-06 23:04
Author: prasannapandit
Category: movies
Tags: 3idiots, avatar, cinema, eragon, fame lido, karthik calling karthik, movies, multiplex, theatre, urvashi
Slug: movies
Status: published

I have a confession to make. I did not watch even a single movie at a
theatre in the whole of 2009. Embarrassing, I know. I finally got tired
of walking past the multiplex entrance at malls and the ticket guy
throwing me a disgusted look, as if I just kicked his dinner plate or
something. So I decided to turn over a new leaf in 2010. It's early
March and I already saw three movies in cinema halls. Just doing my bit
for the Indian economy by circulating money around.

The first one was the overhyped James Cameron movie,
[Avatar](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0499549/). Watched it at Urvashi.
It is a nice, fun movie which you can enjoy on a weekend if you have
nothing else to do. But it certainly isn't as big a deal as the hype
would have you believe. The special effects are nice, and there are a
few memorable scenes as well, like the humans bombing that giant tree.
But the movie has its share of ridiculous stuff as well, like the
body-exchange scene (what the hell was that?) and Unobtainium (you
couldn't think of anything else?). Overall, it is watchable, but nowhere
close to the visual treat that Titanic was. Compared to the
awe-inspiring scenes of a sinking ship, this one is just a bunch of blue
cartoons running around in 3D. The only way this one can be termed a
game changer is in terms of how much money it has made, being a 3D
movie. So we might have lots of movies being released in 3D.

Let me take a detour here and tell you about a series of books called
the [Inheritance cycle](http://www.alagaesia.com/) by Christopher
Paolini (Eragon, Eldest, Brisingr). In these books, there is the  human
protagonist (Eragon), being transformed into a member of a different
race (elves), and is accepted as one of them. 'They' (elves) are faster
than humans, they are a bunch of nature lovers, they respect all
creatures and they have a massive sacred tree. The hero rides a winged
creature (his dragon Saphira), and there is a mental connection between
the rider and the ridden. And the hero (Eragon) falls in love with the
clan-chief's daughter (Islanzadi's daughter Arya), and wages a war on a
human king (Galbatorix). See a pattern? Yes, Avatar is a lot like the
Eragon series. Am I the only one who caught the connection?

The second movie I watched was [3
Idiots](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1187043/) at [Fame
Lido](http://www.famecinemas.com/AboutUs/AboutBanglore.aspx). Again, a
good movie, with lots of laughter, and a good choice if you are looking
for a not-so-serious kind of movie. You have to hand it to Aamir Khan
who plays a college kid, and while he may not look like like a
first-year that he's supposed to look like in the beginning , he does
manage to look in his twenties, which is a massive achievement
considering he is forty-plus.  But despite all the hype, it does not
even come close to the other superhit movie about three friends, Dil
Chahta Hai, which was  a real trendsetter. I had a couple of complaints
about 3 Idiots. The first is that there is too much of Aamir Khan. So
much in fact, that it is the equivalent of Shah Rukh Khan in Om Shanti
Om. Aamir plays Rancho, who is the smartest, funniest, friendliest,
wittiest Mechanical/Electrical/Aeronautical(?) engineer who is also
passionate about his field(s), while also being the master prankster and
rebel, tops the class every single time without once opening a
text-book, besides being caring, thoughtful, good advise-giver and a
romantic, has revolutionary thoughts about the education system and is a
complete non-conformist, who also (SPOILER ALERT!) turns out to be an
impostor whose real name is Phunsuk Wangdoo, who in ten years since
college has become untraceable, become a very successful scientist in
Ladakh (of all places!) with 400 patents (yes, 400!) and imparts
unconventional education to poor kids! Phew. Compared to him, even Sunny
Deol plucking out a hand-pump and thulping hundreds of Pakistanis in
Gadar seems like plausible character development. The other complaint
with the movie is the number of times people drop their pants. It is not
funny, it is definitely not pretty, and it is disgusting. Mr. Hirani, if
you ever have men dropping pants in any more of your movies, I WILL NOT
watch it, you understand? Okay, empty threat, but I WILL close my eyes.

And then there was the third movie, [Karthik calling
Karthik](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1373156/), which I watched at Fame
Lido last weekend. This one, I was looking forward to watch for two
reasons. The first reason was that the premise looked interesting and
this being a Farhan Akhtar movie it was expected to be very good. The
second reason was Deepika Padukone, which made the first reason quite
unnecessary. Now, there are a lot of bad things being said about her
that she can't act, etc. etc. At this point, allow me to introduce a
term called **The Beauty-Talent Product**. An actress might be downright
ugly, or less talented, it's okay as long as her Beauty-Talent product
is more than the threshold. (This is a term I invented, of course, but
let's not call it **Prasanna's Beauty-Talent Product**, for obvious
reasons.) So while Ms. Padukone might be deficient in her acting chops,
her dimpled smile and gorgeous looks more than take her past the finish
line. As also does her innocent face (wrongly called 'vacant
expressions' by ignorant people).

But I am drifting here. Coming back to the movie, while probably not an
edge-of-the-seat thriller, it did manage to hold my interest till the
very end. The first half is breezy and very enjoyable, while the second
half turns slightly slower in pace. But at no point did it become boring
for me as the reviews had suggested. The transformation of the hero was
very hurried and people did laugh when they were not supposed to, like
when the "other Karthik" calls. But overall the movie is very well made,
and excellent acting by Farhan Akhtar gets you interested in what
happens to him in the end.

So, there it is. A good beginning to the year. Three movies, all good,
none of them stupid love stories that make you want to shoot yourself.
And with this, I sign off, with the hope that I get to watch more movies
with interesting plots, different narration styles and good direction.
Or movies with Deepika Padukone.

Cheers.
