Title: The GATE Story - 1
Date: 2010-07-07 18:39
Author: prasannapandit
Category: college
Tags: cedt, csa, gate, iisc, iitb, iitd, iitk, iitm, mtech, pg, serc, ssa
Slug: the-gate-story-1
Status: published

[Now that the whole circus of PG admissions is behind
me]({filename}not-a-bachelor-much-longer.md),
I can finally sit back and write a detailed account of my GATE story.
The whole thing starts with last year, when, due to shockingly poor time
management, I got a dismal 800-something rank in GATE and was staring at
one full wasted year. Add to that, I made some stupid mistakes in
application forms (like applying for TA instead of RA at
[IITB](http://www.iitb.ac.in/)) and chose to not apply for research
programs at any place other than [IISc](http://www.iisc.ernet.in/). As
it turned out, I did indeed get a call for test/interview at
[SERC](http://www.serc.iisc.ernet.in/), IISc. I got through the written
test, but the interview was such a disaster that I must not have looked
any more intelligent than your average potted plant. I came out of the
interview hall feeling like the Mayor of Loserville, painfully aware
that my only hope for PG in 2009 was an utter flop.

A couple of months later, I finally decided to wash away my tears of
sadness with the sweat of hard work (ha!) and earnestly began
preparation for [GATE-2010](http://gate.iitg.ac.in/index.php), reading
as many as two pages per day. But as luck would have it, I was extremely
busy at work during the prime months for GATE preparation (November to
January), working till late at nights in the office and during weekends.
And just like that, I was at the beginning of February, with my head
feeling unpleasantly empty and almost all of my engineering syllabus to
be studied, cursing myself that I did not take up further studies
seriously in my final year.

Before we go into February, let me produce a fictitious conversation at
a fictitious meeting among GATE committee members, a few days before the
brochure was printed:

**M1**: So, guys, what can we do to torture students this year? Any
ideas?

**M2**: I know! Let's change the format of the paper! AGAIN!

**M3**: Excellent! And let's add a General Aptitude section!

**M4**: Let's remove the concept of percentiles and make all of them
feel like losers when the results come out!

**M5**: Great ideas gentlemen! We can do all of that. But I have the
best idea of them all! Let's have GATE on Valentine's Day!

**M1, M2, M3, M4**: (applause)

Yes, GATE was scheduled on Valentine's Day this time. So on a day when
all the "committed" guys were planning on going out on dates with their
girlfriends and when all the single guys were planning to call their
best looking female friends out for lunch in the hope that the Rama Sene
guys would catch them and marry them off, I was to be found woken up at
5 AM, groggy with  barely two hours of sleep, yelling insane things like
"B-Trees! I forgot to read B-Trees! Ayyo!"

Once in the exam hall, I was relieved to see that the question paper was
not heart-shaped and that the room was not decorated with pink balloons
(I had secretly decided to jump off the building if it were so). I found
the paper itself quite manageable and took care to skip questions that I
thought would take a lot of time. Indeed, when the exam finished I
thought I had done reasonably well and even remember singing aloud on
the way home, causing my fellow motorists to look at me with suspicion
and alarm. I even resisted throwing garbage at passing couples.

I got a rude shock later that evening when I realized I had answered one
of the questions inadvertently considering counting
[semaphores](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semaphore_(programming))
instead of binary semaphores (this stupidity would eventually cost me
around 35 ranks). But the rest of the paper was mostly correct and I
estimated a worst case marks of at least 51/100 which meant this year
wasn't a complete fiasco after all.

Happily, a month later, when the results came, I found that I had gotten
AIR 185, scoring 57.67/100 with a GATE score of 841/1000, which was the
best I could hope for given the circumstances. I quickly calculated that
I would get one or two direct admits and test/interview calls at
practically all places I apply.

I quickly applied for course programs at
[IISc](http://www.iisc.ernet.in/) ([CSA](http://www.csa.iisc.ernet.in/),
[SSA](http://minchu.ee.iisc.ernet.in/new/info/messa.htm),
[SERC](http://www.serc.iisc.ernet.in/),
[CEDT](http://www.cedt.iisc.ernet.in/)), [IITB](http://www.iitb.ac.in/),
[IITK](http://www.iitk.ac.in/), [IITM](http://www.iitm.ac.in/) and
[IITD](http://www.iitd.ac.in/). I even applied for a few electrical
department courses wherever applicable. Quite expectedly, I got a call
for written test/interview for MTech in [Computational
Science](http://www.serc.iisc.ernet.in/admissions/mtech.htm) and
[Electronics Design and
Technology](http://www.cedt.iisc.ernet.in/index.php?id=15&Cid=8&page=template&pid=4)
at IISc. Both the tests were on the same day, so I quickly took a call
to skip the CEDT test (I figured I wouldn't join it even if I got
through, so why bother?). Given that I had performed so poorly in the
SERC interview last year, I went with furious determination to get
through the Computational Science program.

I did not even get shortlisted.

Quite strangely, I was a little bit relieved that I did not get through.
Maybe it was because Computational Science was not what I wanted to do
and if I had gotten it, I would have probably taken the easy way out and
chucked all other offers. However, this meant that I would have to
travel to Kanpur and Delhi and try to get through those.

The North India trip was quite an experience, but I shall continue it in
a separate post. Do come back!

(Continued in [The GATE Story -
2]({filename}the-gate-story-2.md))
